go on from microcosm to macrocosm we're
talking about intellectual and moral
bankruptcy of particular people in the
vegan movement and you know we telescope
out look at it at a bit of a bigger
scale and we talk about the intellectual
and moral bankruptcy of veganism as a
movement on the whole responding here to
impart some of the stupidest things
vegan gains has said to me this week I'm
gonna talk a little bit about some
thoughts I had when watching a video
from Kristen leo
and when watching some commentary from
the indefatigable Madi limb burner and
her boyfriend who was known as Mattie
Lynn burners boyfriend let's be real
does he even have a name I think it's
Kyle or some [ __ ]
whatever nobody's nobody has ever
referred to me as Melissa's boyfriend
I'm not gonna okay you know that guy uh
Melissa's boyfriend No
so hey feather feather in my
hypothetical cap they're both Kristen
Leo and Maddie or responding to the I
don't know controversy of the day which
is the fall from grace of bonny Rebecca
partly this is being discussed because
people actually have originally
meaningful things to say about it and
let's keep it although in real people
people are partly just talking about it
because it's an opportunity to sharpen
your knives it's an opportunity to dust
off that old sense of moral superiority
oh yes oh yes hey who wants to sit down
and talk about somebody who's
accomplished way more in their lives
than us
and who sets a really high standard for
moral conduct and accomplishments and
who wants to make a video about someone
they have so much respect and admiration
for for their intellectual
accomplishments of the moral stand they
took on an issue or what they've
accomplished doing humanitarian work
nope who wants who was the heap scorn on
bonny Rebecca let the whole world know
how a moral superior how morally
superior they are for what trite and
trivial reasons people are lining up for
that and obviously the audience is
lining up to hear it too so there's
money to be made and telling people
things they already want to hear and
that's what about eight-tenths of
youtube is all about by the way guys
just just real briefly on that you
I've always said this I'm proud when my
videos have an equal number of thumbs up
to thumbs down
I think that's normally when you're
writing the edge of challenging your
audience just enough a trait about 80%
thumbs down
you know maybe stop and reevaluate but I
think I think getting a lot of thumbs
down is actually really good thing
because you're not just telling people
something they already want to hear
alright so I'll give the link below if
you want to see on screen exactly what
it was vegan gainsaid and exactly what I
said
in reply to him and what I assume or
even what I hope is the last
conversation I ever have of this guy but
um you guys already know I was pushing
him on the issue of having a meaningful
life and he really did not want to reply
to that he really didn't want to deal
with the question I was talking about
having a morally upstanding life I was
started with having an intellectually
rewarding life moving forward positively
and kind of the last dodge or deflection
he engaged in was instead Geor an answer
about how much money he makes how he
makes more money than I deal which is
just it's just misdirection it's just
not the type of conversation you know do
you want to go into real estate you can
make a lot more money in real estate
than on YouTube but that's now we're
talking about you know we were talking
about the difference leading a
meaningful life in a meaningless one and
how to grow older how to grow wiser
welcoming older instead of just playing
video games and living a kind of
self-indulgent life in this kind of
thing anyway so he finally did answer
the question of what kind of person does
he want to be in five to ten years and I
was gonna get there by just bragging
about how much money he makes and by
claiming that playing video games is
justified because you can make so much
money doing it and this was my reply
quote does anyone here think that vegan
gains would make less money if he
actually followed the advice set out in
this video would he receive less in
donations if he directly imitated the
two examples that in the video of people
engaged in humanitarian work with Syrian
refugees do you think he'd become a
worse person if he started caring both
real-world in terms of reading and
learning not just humanitarian
engagement as opposed to playing video
games anyone so there are a lot of funny
little ironies built into this I know
vegan gains has wanted to talk tough
about Islam in the past he's wanted to
offer a very harsh criticism of Islam
well um you know he could especially
from his position of privilege frankly
in terms of his level of fame and income
from you know sharing his pens in the
jet he could have raised money and gone
over and got involved and done
humanitarian work in you know really
anywhere in the Muslim world he could
have gone to Afghanistan would have you
and he could have started producing much
more well-informed
deep and profound reflections on you
know the cultural effects of Islam and
what's wrong with it and the knock-on
effects as in people's lives whether
it's some people's psychology education
gender roles or what-have-you
I know he made videos in the past in a
really shallow way just heaping scorn on
his long go out there live with it see
what it does to people and you know try
to make a positive difference he could
have gotten involved with I mean but
you're saying you know he's also heaped
scorn on feminism you know you know
really shallow way well he could put
those two together what about getting
involved with women's education in
Afghanistan you know ie trying to oppose
the tendency of the Taliban and other
Muslim extremists their tendency to
exclude women from having access to
education to actually getting out and
fighting for women's equality through
education whether in Afghanistan or
whatever anywhere in them in the Muslim
world
what about again if he came onto that I
don't think anyone could say that vegan
gains would have less public support and
less interest if he actually did take on
a sincerely humanitarian engagement with
the Muslim world Syria happened to be
the example we talked about now this
takes me to the main topic I want to
discuss in this video which is hope and
when vegan gains first came on the scene
I remember him being interviewed by
should buy a huge range of people
I remember being interviewed by
the amazing atheist on his show that was
then called the drunken peasants I
remember him being interviewed by happy
healthy vegan when vegan gains first
achieved a certain level of Fame there
was real excitement attached to hope
right and the hope was that he was gonna
play some kind of positive role in
leading the vegan movement and instead
what we've all learned with the passage
of time and repetition is that there is
there is there is no hope he is never
gonna do anything positive for anyone as
I just discussed with him you know face
to face it was just in written form at
going back and forth he is never gonna
do anything but sit in his ass and live
a life devoted to short-term
self-indulgence playing video games
whatever makes him feel happy in the
moment he doesn't even have the level of
self-discipline and vision to take
filmmaking seriously to become seriously
interested in comedy or filmmaking or
script writing I started talking to me
years and years and years ago he and I
first talked when his channel was really
small so I already knew not to have that
hope I knew he wasn't getting it serious
about activism or political leadership
but an earlier stage I did wonder if he
was gonna get more dressed to me and
creative artists probably cuz he has a
background in photography I thought once
he had some more money and once he could
devote all of his time to being creative
on YouTube I thought he might get more
serious about filmmaking
you know actually having proper actors
and lighting and scripts and everything
but no there's absolutely no reason to
hope for anything positive from this guy
and just now on this debate with me he's
dug himself in and said that he has
absolutely no interest in doing anything
for anyone of themself and he has no
interest even in developing himself into
a better person doing anything other
than being self-indulgent so I walked
this latest video from Kristen leo
Kristen leo who has jumped on the bad
way of people condemning Bonnie we're
back up for leaving veganism according
the diet leaving the movement and going
back to eating meat Kristen Leo's
analysis really focuses on the concept
of stress and then you know what's the
opposite of stress or what's the
alternative relaxation take
it easy maybe even not caring
indifference and Kristen leo says
correctly in a sense but I'm here
disagree she says well you know most of
these mysterious health problems people
are talking about they actually can be
attributed to stress so indigestion acne
or what-have-you and they can be
alleviated by alleviating the the
underlying stress this is I think going
down a false rabbit hole does anyone
believe that eating chicken eggs is the
cure for acne and if you did believe
that what would be the scientific basis
for it but unless you actually believe
that acne is caused by a lack of
cholesterol on the getting cholesterol
from eggs cures acne it's completely
surreal does anyone believe that eating
fish cures acne or if we get anything
else I mean it's it's a little bit
ridiculous I think to to cross swords
with these X vegans on that level to
presume that you can actually treat any
of these illnesses or sometimes they're
not even illnesses but whatever
perceived sources of distress through
eating chicken fish or any other kind of
animal product however what I thought
was interesting was just thinking about
the problem in terms of stress and the
alleviation of stress and for me on the
contrary I think the real issue is hope
that's why I linked this to this
discussion of a vegan gains um people
evaluated the good and the bad if even
vegan gains in a framework ultimately of
hope hope for something better in the
future you know back in the day it was
like well yeah he's waving knives around
on camera
he's waving guns around on camera he's
making violent threats he sometimes
saying extremely disturbing things
politically but there's hope then at
some point when the hope goes away you
regard all those things quite quite
differently you know when there's no
hope oh okay so this guy is just a
parasite on the vegan movement he's just
a plate in the vegan boom he's really
just making I hate to say it he is just
making doesn't look bad it's not going
anywhere not even on a creative level
there was a filmmaking not on a level of
his personal development or him getting
an education moving forward now we start
to evaluate all those things differently
you look back at it you think well you
think what was I thinking to be to be
blunt right people endure all kinds of
suffering and sorrow and stress in
relation to some particular objective to
some hope when I moved to Cambodia I
think this is true also in level of
romantic relationships like you put up
with your boyfriend but you're
supporting him while he finishes his
degree in university or is like things
are linked to particular ideas of a
career or maybe that you're gonna get
pardon have a baby whatever it is you're
thinking about some kind of future and
then you evaluate what's going on in
your relationship differently relative
to that hope and then if that hope
disappears you look back at all the time
spend that relationship very very
differently right seeing the reaction of
my girlfriend's face here just off
camera he knows she knows what I'm
talking about maybe a little too well um
when I moved to Cambodia I was going to
andyour all kinds of stress and danger
Cambodians a hell of a hard language to
learn I had three white boards so if you
don't whiteboard is the opposite of a
black board it's with big markers you're
and I had three big white boards and
they were actually on wheels so you
could wheel them around the apartment so
wanted to have it in the kitchen or the
living room the bedroom those were all
the rooms I had in that apartment three
rooms
I had three big whiteboards set up so I
would practice and study Cambodian
writing things on the board and then I
could see the board rooms eating
breakfast the number of hours you put
into that I personally put into the
level of stress just in dealing with the
language in Cambodia I mean I knew one
person personally who was robbed at
gunpoint on the street the same street I
walked down every day and the gun went
off the gun was fired guns with gun
shots are fired in the air and stuff so
a strong armed gunpoint robbery you
heard gunshots going off when I was up
on the rooftop of my building doing my
email that was there was Wi-Fi on the
rooftop not in the room so you'd go up
to the rooftop
you'd hear gunshots going off in the
city so I mean some of the danger was
not imagined
and I didn't earn enough money to take
taxis I'd walk everywhere I walked to
work with my umbrella in the torrential
rain
that was real torrential rain where some
streets could be under a metre of water
if stayed in the main highway it was on
an embankment
so you'd be a little bit you'd be a few
inches off the water will rain pouring
down on you and then other day so it'd
be the burning heat pouring down you'd
have the umbrella up for that too um I
injured a lot of stress right stress
justified by and linked to hope hope to
make the world a better place
hope to do you know well I was in a
sense doing humanitarian work I was in a
sense making a little place I was also
doing research I was learning in some
ways I was becoming a better person
there were positive elements you know in
the present tense but there's also the
hope and aspiration for the future I
never wanted to go back to Canada I
didn't want to build a life in Canada I
want to build a life in Cambodia in
Southeast Asia you know develop that
develop that position and then when that
hope was crushed when you give up on
Cambodia when it's gone you look back on
those years your life and think wow what
was I doing everything I poured into
that and it's all lost so my point is
here I do actually think Kristen leo is
in a sense wrong in a sense just
incorrect looking at these problems and
people quitting the vegan movement in
terms of stress people quit the vegan
movement because they lose the hope that
justifies that stress and they lose the
hope partly because they're
disillusioned with people like vegan
gains believe me I saw it happened on a
huge scale before with people being
disillusioned with during Ryder freely
I've seen people dissolution with Kerry
Francie oh they have seen people
disillusion with Gary Yourofsky you know
it really can be disillusionment with
leaders it can be also disillusionment
with the diet that they believe the diet
would cure cancer or the diet would make
them thin beautiful would give them
perfect skin perfect digestion
whether it's shallow or deep people get
this solution with the health claims
people get a solution with the political
program
veganism is movement people do get the
solution with particularly ders and then
when you lose that hope then the stress
you engage in ceases to be justified
right so and now just as a kind of
comedic ending to this video what was
the deal with Mattie limb burner and her
boyfriend well they came on camera and
to Maddie's surprise they did a
spontaneous video her boyfriend said
that he agreed with bonny Rebecca that
he's he if he it would make him feel
better this is really a direct quote he
said if it would make him feel better he
would eat animal products he would eat
meat or fish or or eggs
so that's I think the ultimate absurdity
but that is I mean he's correctly
identifying what's going on here nobody
even debates or disputes the question
would you take a pill of legitimate
medicine if it happened to contain
animal products and you needed it to
live you need to treat a disease I've
been in that position repeatedly the
most memorable maybe was having to get
vitamins for my infant daughter when my
daughter was a newborn baby we worked
really hard to try to get the vitamins
because there were certain vitamins like
I think even you're legally required
okay you're supposed to provide them to
a baby it's required when they're there
a newborn and we worked really really
hard to try to get a vitamin A this is
zero
animal products but what we ended up
giving her had a treat a tiny tiny
amount of vitamin D extracted from
sheep's wool it's a byproduct of sheep's
wool so it's actually like the duck it's
like the sweat that's on the sheep's
wool at the time the sheep's wool will
shave and they take that off and extract
vitamin T we really tried we really went
around and asked and a bunch of
alternative medicine shops and just
normal pharmacists to saying look do you
have any of this type of special vitamin
primarily it's sold for babies but some
adults use this type of vitamin also
that doesn't and we couldn't bottom line
was okay we need this so the baby is
going to eat a trace amount of sheeple
extract because we couldn't do any
better I've mentioned before also it's
it's never been that the animal product
was in
to saving my life or something but you
can have prescription medicine you
really need and the capsule has gelatin
or even has honey as a sensitive this
kind of thing it's not that the honey
cures you but it's in the pill and you
can't get the honey you can't get the
pill without the honey and this kind of
thing nobody is debating that right the
reality is the were debating are not
real cures for real diseases that
contain animal products it's people
chasing a feeling it's that you think it
would make you feel better if you eat
fish you think it would make you feel
better feed an egg or maybe it's meat or
milk whatever is in your case and the
very fundamental question is are you
living for feeling for feeling good is
that what your life is is about or is
your life about what doing what's right
and doing what's wrong
and for me this brings me back to the
slave motif that vegan gains is an idiot
that vegan gains is morally and
intellectually bankrupt because that is
the philosophy of vegan gains right is
doing whatever you want to do whenever
you want to do it and if that's playing
video games for three hours a day
whatever it is living a life of total
self-indulgence that is living a life
for feeling well sure sure sure sure
well no okay but look this is the other
thing it's a figure of speech there is
no complete self-indulgence right your
self-indulgence can never be complete
it's always gonna be err SATs it's all
you all okay but you okay so you chose
to use eggs and fish but you're not
using cocaine but I'm a better event
example than cocaine ashes adderall all
of these problems be solved by a dural
weight-loss focus attention feeling
happy adderall solves it all adderall is
modern medical sciences perfection of
cocaine it's cocaine without the side
effects it's a long sustained cocaine
like high and it's incredibly addictive
and what most people tell you is though
you want to write a novel in six months
get on adderall you want to get better
scores on the IQ test the SAT the L SAT
the O the GRE exam get on adderall
does adderall make you superhuman or it
doesn't make you subhuman okay what is a
life of complete indulgence there's no
answer there is no complete
self-indulgence right but the opposite
there is complete devotion to doing the
right thing because the right thing to
do there is complete devotion to doing
the best you can being devoted to make
the world a better place to being a
better person yourself and part of that
is indeed making the commitment hey my
life is not just about feeling good it's
not just about chasing a feeling it's
not about how I feel it's not even just
about what I know it's about fundamental
questions I've already done wrong